Jk/cumulus 3444 (#3554)
nasa/cumulus: docs/upgrade-notes/upgrade-rds-cluster-tf-postgres-13.md

---
id: upgrade-rds-cluster-tf-postgres-13
title: Upgrade Database Cluster to PostgreSQL v13
hide_title: false
---

> Cumulus Core as of version > 18.1.0, and for the stable support release 16.1.x *only* for versions > v16.1.3 now supports and is tested against Aurora Postgres v13.   All users should update their datastores to this version as part of an upgrade process upon upgrading to release version 18.2.0 or 16.1.4.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cumulus Core as of version > 18.1.0** now supports and is tested against Aurora Postgres v13.   All users should update their datastores to this version as part of an upgrade process upon upgrading to release version 18.2.0.

**This update was also backported to the 16.1.x release chain starting with v16.1.3.
```

Reviewer: Just trying to push to the latest version and make the v16 route a footnote.

Author: Hmm, fair enough.  👍🏻

We recommend stopping all ingest rules if database downtime is required (e.g. you do not have a blue-green database solution or are using serverless V1) for the update  as any unavailability of the database may result in unexpected database write failures (resulting in records in the Dead Letter Archive), workflow failures or other unexpected failures.

**It is also recommended that users test/evaluate the upgrade prior to performing it on their primary datastore in order to determine expected downtime and/or other related issues for their particular configuration.**

> ## Users utilizing the `cumulus-rds-tf` module

Reviewer: This is as opposed to users using their own custom configuration? There's probably not much to say but maybe another section to cover the rest of the users? Are there any relevant AWS docs we could point them to? I'm not certain what popular alternatives to our module would be so perhaps not.

Author: Right, at some point the means and methods they use to deploy, backup and maintain their primary datastore are up to the users.      This is just a reminder to not "YOLO" a database upgrade to 13 for any configuration without appropriate engineering rigor - it may be unnecessary....

Reviewer: Yeah, makes sense. I think leave it to be explicit and no need to talk about alternatives.

**It is also recommended that users test/evaluate the upgrade prior to performing it on their primary datastore in order to determine expected downtime and/or other related issues for their particular configuration.**

## Users utilizing the `cumulus-rds-tf` module

It is recommended that users manually backup and/or consider cloning their datastore in order to recover the datastore if an upgrade goes awry.

Upgrading the Aurora Serverless v1 cluster will be completed via AWS console in this document and require manual steps to complete the upgrade:

- Ensure a supported version (> 18.1.0 *or* 16.1.4 or a later patch version) is deployed.
- Deploy the newest version of the `cumulus-rds-tf` module, ensuring `enable_upgrade` is set to false.   This will *only* deploy a `v13` version of your current parameter group configuration, named `<prefix>-cluster-parameter-group-v13`.

> - Shut down all ingest and other usage of the database cluster by 3rd party applications if appropriate.

Reviewer: This should probably be moved up prior to the above "deploy" step.

Author: Is that right?   The module can be deployed with ingest up and an existing data store presuming no other changes.     I don't think the upgrade will start on deployment (the module can't support that), and at worst it would fail to deploy if the configuration params aren't set properly 🤔

  - Ensure the min/max capacity settings match expected values and have not changed
  - DB cluster parameter group - utilize the newly created parameter group from step #2 for the update.
- Once you have completed the modifications, click `Continue` and verify the `Summary of modifications` has the engine version and modified parameter group.
- **Important:** Update the `Schedule modifications` to apply the change immediately.

    Once this is done, apply the updates. The database upgrade will begin, and the database will shutdown/restart repeatedly.    You can monitor progress in the database cluster’s `Logs & events` tab.

    Upon completion you should expect to see output similar to:

    ```text
    Database cluster engine major version has been upgraded.
    Updated to use DBClusterParameterGroup : <prefix>-cluster-parameter-group-v13. The DB cluster will scale to apply database parameters.
    Scaling DB cluster from 4 capacity units to 4 capacity units for this reason: Apply database parameters.
    ```

- On update completion, validate database cluster appears to have restarted with the expected configuration, non-cumulus databases, etc.

> - Modify the `enable_upgrade` `rds-cluster-tf` module variable to `true`, and run `terraform plan` (and optionally apply) to ensure there are no changes in the module, and the postgres v11 compatible parameter group is cleaned up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update the `enable_upgrade` `rds-cluster-tf` module variable to `true`, and run `terraform init` and `terraform apply` to ensure the postgres v11 compatible parameter group is cleaned up. This should be the only change so double-check the changeset or run `terraform plan` to be sure.
```

Reviewer: This would just be for those not totally familiar with terraform. Take it or leave it.
